he who is often rebuked and hardens his
neck will suddenly be destroyed and that
without remedy when the righteous are in
authority the people rejoice but when a
wicked man rules the people groan
whoever loves wisdom makes his father
rejoice but a companion of harlots
wastes his wealth the King establishes
the land by justice but he who receives
bribes overthrows it a man who flatters
his neighbor spreads a net for his feet
by transgression an evil man is snared
but the righteous sings and rejoices the
righteous considers the cause of the
poor but the wicked does not understand
such knowledge scoffers set a city of
lame but wise men turn away wrath if a
wise man contends with a foolish man
whether the fool rages or laughs there
is no peace the bloodthirsty hate the
blameless but the upright seek is well
being a fool vents all his feelings but
a wise man holds them back if a ruler
pays attention to lies all his servants
become wicked the poor man and the
oppressor have this in common the Lord
gives light to the eyes of both
the king who judges the poor with truth
his throne will be established forever
the rod and rebuke could give wisdom but
a Child Left to himself bringeth mother
when the wicked are multiplied
transgression increases but the
righteous will see their fall correct
your son and he will give you rest yes
he will give to light to your soul where
there is no revelation the people cast
off restraint but happy is he who keeps
the law a servant will not be corrected
by mere words for though he understands
he will not respond do you see a man
hasty in his words there is more hope
for a fool than for him he who Pampas
his servant from childhood will have him
as a son in the end an angry man stirs
up strife and a furious man abounds in
transgression a man's pride will bring
him low but the humble in spirit will
retain honor
whoever is a partner with a thief hates
his own life he swears to tell the truth
but reveals nothing the fear of man
brings a snare but whoever trusts in the
Lord shall be safe many seek the rulers
favour but justice for man comes from
the Lord an unjust man is an abomination
to the righteous and he who is upright
in the way is an abomination to the
wicked